### 3.9. Limitations for resources ###

#### 3.9.1 Local disk rate ####

This is done by reducing the local disk write rate to the bytes per second specified in the settings.
The value of the parameter is a string representing the number of bytes that can be written to disk
per second. Values with suffixes indicating size are also accepted: kb, mb, gb, etc.

There are two levels for limiting the disk write speed. Each subsequent level will override the values
of the previous level. To disable the limits use "0".

1. Basic (general) level in the main config in nxs-backup.conf allows you to set limits for all backup jobs.

Here is an example of a disk rate limit config in nxs-backup.conf:
```
include_job_configs: ["conf.d/*.conf"]

limits:
  disk_rate: "20mb"
```

In this example, nxs-backup will limit the disk write speed for all jobs to 20Mb/s.

2. Job level in its config allows you to set/override limits for this specific job.

Here is an example of disk rate limit config in job config:
```
job_name: limited_files
type: files

limits:
  disk_rate: "50mb"
```

In this example, nxs-backup will limit the disk write speed for job limited_files to 50Mb/s
no matter what limit is set in the main config.


#### 3.9.2. Remote storage rate ####

The network speed limit for remote storage is set in the settings as the number of bytes per second.
The value of the parameter is a string representing the number of bytes that can be written to disk per second.
Values with suffixes indicating size are also accepted: kb, mb, gb, etc.

There are three levels for limiting the disk write speed. Each subsequent level will override the values
of the previous level. To disable the limits use "0".

1. Basic (general) level in the main config in nxs-backup.conf allows you to set limits for all backup jobs.

Here is an example of remote storage net rate limit config in nxs-backup.conf:
```
include_job_configs: ["conf.d/*.conf"]

limits:
  net_rate: "10mb"
```

In this example, nxs-backup will limit the remote storage write speed for all the jobs to 10Mb/s.

2. Storage config level in the main config in nxs-backup.conf allows you to set limits for specific remote storage in its config.

Here is an example of remote storage with a net rate limit in nxs-backup.conf:
```
storage_connects:
- name: s3_aws
  rate_limit: "100mb"
  s3_params:
    bucket_name: backups_bucket
    access_key_id: my_s3_ak_id
    secret_access_key: ENV:S3_SECRET_KEY
    endpoint: s3.amazonaws.com
    region: us-east-1
```

In this example, nxs-backup will limit the remote storage `s3_aws` speed rate to 100Mb/s regardless
of the limits specified on the basic level.

3. Job level in its config allows you to set/override limits for this specific job.

Here is an example of remote storage net rate limit config in job config:
```
job_name: limited_files
type: files

limits:
  net_rate: "50mb"
```

In this example, nxs-backup will limit the remote storage write speed for the job limited_files
to 50Mb/s regardless of the limits specified in the main configuration.


#### 3.9.3. CPU limit ####

To limit CPU time utilization in multiprocessor/multithreaded systems,
a new option, `limits.cpu_max_count`,  was added to the main nxs-backup config.

This option allows you to set an integer limit on the number of CPU's used to run nxs-backup.
This restriction only applies to operations performed directly by nxs-backup (data compression),
external utilities called from nxs-backup are not subject to this restriction.

The default value is 0, means that all available cpu's will be used.

Here is an example of config CPU usage limit in nxs-backup.conf:
```yaml
include_job_configs: ["conf.d/*.conf"]

limits:
  cpu_max_count: 4
```

In this example, nxs-backup will not use more than 4 CPU when compressing data.

For single-core/single-threaded systems, there is no support for limiting CPU consumption built into nxs-backup.
However, you can use cgroups or cpulimit to limit CPU time as a percentage.

Here is an example of running the nxs-backup with cpulimit:
```sh
$ cpulimit -l 50 -- nxs-backup start
```

In this example, nxs-backup will be limited to the cpulimit utility and will not use
more than 50% of CPU time.

